Part 1:

Question: How did you verify that you are parsing the contours directly?
I did some command line tests calling parse_contour_file and feeding the result into poly_to_mask to verify the
output looked ok. I checked to see that there were non-zero regions coming back in the output boolean mask using
np.count_nonzero() to count the number of non-zero elements.

I also plotted some images of both the dicom/boolean masks to ensure it looked like they were being parsed/loaded
correctly. Two example pairs are in the repo. 

Question: What changes did you make to the code, if any, in order to integrate it into our production code base?
Answer: The only main change I made was to modify the parse_dicom_file function to return the image directly
(as a numpy array), instead of a dictionary with one element mapping to the image. 


Part 2:

Question: Did you change anything from the pipelines built in Parts 1 to better streamline the pipeline built in Part 2? 
If so, what? If not, is there anything that you can imagine changing in the future?
Answer: I initially had designed the parser to simply return the X,Y parsed pairs, but decided to instead
have them written out as saved numpy files. I think this is more robust, and allows for the parser to be used in isolation
and invoked once instead of every time the batch generator wants to be used. 

Question: How do you/did you verify that the pipeline was working correctly?
Answer: Mostly print statements while writing the functions to ensure they were function as expected. 
There is a quick example of the both the parser and batch generator usage at the bottom of the parse_pipeline.py file.

Question: Given the pipeline you have built, can you see any deficiencies that you would change if you had more time? If not,
can you think of any improvements/enhancements to the pipeline that you could build in?
Answer: The main area of improvement is in the robustness of file finding/matching. Right now, to get things functioning
as expected, much of the file path construction is hard coded, and relies on relative directory structures that could be
changed. 

The other main deficiency is lack of real testing. Given more time (or a real project being deployed), I would add real unit
tests to test these parser/batch generator functions in isolation to have more confidence they perform well across test cases. 

Follow Up Part 1:
The main change I made to the pipeline was abstracting the X,Y pair generation to work on either icontour or ocontour directories.
This way, in one pass through the link file, I can generate the X,Y pairs corresponding to both the icontour file and ocontour
files. The batch generation code remains the same, and still operates on a single X,Y pair.

Follow Up Part 2:
Question: Let’s assume that you want to create a system to outline the boundary of the blood pool (i-contours), 
and you already know the outer border of the heart muscle (o-contours). Compare the differences in pixel 
intensities inside the blood pool (inside the i-contour) to those inside the heart muscle 
(between the i-contours and o-contours); could you use a simple thresholding scheme to automatically create 
the i-contours, given the o-contours? Why or why not? Show figures that help justify your answer.
Answer: I think a simple thresholding scheme is definitely possible, and might work reasonably well. After some
investigation, it looks like the inside of the blood pool has pixel intensities in the range of about 200-350,
while the area inside the heart muscle has intensities around 50-150. There is a noticeable and distinct difference
here, so picking a threshold in between this range seems reasonable. The challenging part here is that the different
dicom images have different scales of pixel intensities, so pick a threshold that will work well on all images is
difficult. 

Instead of picking a global threshold, another good approach might be to pick thresholds per image. I.e. something along 
the lines of start in the center of the image where the density is higher, and look outwards until there is a noticable
drop in pixel intensity. From there, an image specific density threshold can be selected and used to generate the i-contours.

For some more concrete numbers here, I did a bit of investigation into the densities of the blood pool regions. The average
density in the center pixel (which will belong to the portion inside the blood pool) across all dicom images is 241.99.
I didn't have time to do any investigation into the pixel values of the heart muscle region, but from a quick inspection
it seems to be in the region of 50-150, like I mentioned above. Again, it seems that a simple thresholding algorithm is
possible given the big difference in pixel densities between the two regions we're interested in. 

There is one image of all 3 correspondong files for one of the instances, which does a good job of showing the difference
between these regions, and the corresponding pixel density difference. 

Question: Do you think that any other heuristic (non-machine learning)-based approaches, besides simple thresholding, 
would work in this case? Explain.
Answer: I think the other heuristic that would work well in addition to the thresholding heuristic is a median
filter. After thresholding the image, we could go through each pixel and replace each entry with the median of
the surrounding pixels. The intuition here is that the thersholding technique will be brittle. It's likely that
there are erroneous pixels inside the blood pool that are dark and will get thresholded incorrectly. It's unlikely
that we have large groups of these, so if we take the average of neighboring pixel values, we can then threshold
them again. This is a similar technique used in removing salt and pepper noise from images, and will add the effect
of some robustness and stability to the simple thresholding algorithm.

Question: What is an appropriate deep learning-based approach to solve this problem?
Answer: One possible deep learning approach is to use semantic segmentation. We can either invest in finding real
labeled data (like we have now), or leverage the heursitic based approach to generate training examples. The intution
is to feed in as input (x, y) pairs the (dicom image, i-contour) images. The simplest architecture would be to have
several convolutional layers that shrink the spatial dimensions of the dicom image, and then add deconvolution layers
(also known as transpose convolution layers) to bring the spatial dimensions back up to the same size as our input. 

Our loss function can be a pixelwise log-loss, as our output pixels are binary (part of the icontour or not). This
can be extended to be a general cross entropy loss over our output distributions per pixel if we want to classify
over more than two classes (segment over more than 2 options).

Question: What are some advantages and disadvantages of the deep learning approach compared your chosen heuristic method?
Answer: The deep learning approach will be more robust to small variations in pixel densities, and has the flexibility to generalize.
The heuristic approach could be brittle, as mentioned above, and deciding a threshold might be very specific to one dataset.

For example, if we choose a threshold and then get a new set of images with a different scale and average pixel densities
in the regions we're interested in, the threshold algorithm might not work at all. The deep learning approach has a chance to
generalize to identify higher level constructs like edges and shapes. 

The big disadvantage of the deep learning based approach is the requirement for training data. The heuristic approach can be
built using no labeled instances, while the deep learning approach will require many.
